Our theme this month is keep seeking great things for Jehovah.
It's based on some powerful advice that Jehovah gave to a man named Beric.
Who was Beric?
What can his example teach us?
And how can the Divine Council he received help us today?
Let's find out.
Beric was a faithful servant of Jehovah.
He appears in the Bible book of Jeremiah about the year 625 BCE.
Let's start our journey by reading Jeremiah chapter 45, verse 1.
This is the word that Jeremiah, the prophet, spoke to Beric, the Son of Nariah when he
wrote in a book, these words dictated by Jeremiah in the fourth year of Jehoyakim, Son of
Josiah, the King of Judah.
Beric served as Jeremiah's personal secretary.
The two worked closely together for some 18 years, including after the destruction of
Jerusalem in 607 BCE.
That was certainly a special privilege of service during a very challenging time.
But why did Jeremiah need an assistant?
For some 23 years, Jeremiah had been conveying a message of judgment and hope to God's people
in Judah.
In the year 625 BCE, it seems that Jeremiah had been barred from the temple area where
Jehovah's message was to be read.
At that time, Jehovah asked Jeremiah to write his warnings in a scroll.
That's where Beric, a scribe or a secretary, comes into the picture.
He wrote in a scroll all the words that Jehovah had spoken through Jeremiah up until that
time, 23 years worth.
The following year, when the time came for the contents of that scroll to be read aloud
in the temple courtyard, Jeremiah asked Beric to deliver the message.
Again, Beric did just so.
What happened next?
When the princes of Judah heard what Beric had done, they wanted to hear the message firsthand.
So Beric read it out loud again.
As soon as they heard it, the account says, they looked at one another in dread.
They told Beric, we must certainly tell the king all these words.
Before doing so, they warned Beric, go and hide yourselves.
Do and Jeremiah, and do not let anyone know where you are.
Wicked King Jehovahic him was hot with anger.
He burned the scroll and ordered that Jeremiah and Beric be arrested.
Now let's pause and think.
From what we've considered so far, what can we learn from Beric?
First, he was humble.
Many scholars believe that he belonged to a prominent scribal family.
Yet when the invitation came to help Jeremiah, Beric proceeded to do according to all that
Jeremiah the prophet had commanded him.
Like you, brothers and sisters, Beric was happy to support Jehovah's work and to do whatever
was asked of him.
He did not let his family status or personal goals distract him.
As he was humble, he put Jehovah's will first in his life.
Beric also demonstrated endurance.
Do you think putting 23 years worth of divine messages in writing took some time?
Of course.
Beric didn't have a modern tool such as a smartphone tablet or computer.
It was a lot of manual work.
And imagine Beric's shock when the king burned up the first scroll.
That was Jehovah's message.
That was the scroll that Beric had written by hand.
Hours of work up in smoke.
Jeremiah chapter 36 verse 32 says,
Jeremiah then took another scroll and gave it to Beric.
And at Jeremiah's dictation, he wrote on it all the words of the scroll that King Jehoya
came of Judah had burned in the fire and many more words like those were at it.
Like Beric, we too need endurance to stick to our sacred work when there are challenges.
Number two, Beric's courage.
He must have known how dangerous it would be to work with Jeremiah.
Earlier the same king that burned up the scroll killed another prophet of Jehovah, Eurijah,
by the sword.
But Beric fearlessly used his professional skills and contacts to support Jehovah's
prophet.
There's so much we can learn from this God-fearing man who demonstrated humility, endurance,
and courage.
Jehovah loved Beric and so do we.
Of course, Beric, like us, confronted negative thoughts and feelings.
There was one challenge that could have cost him dearly.
What was it?
Let's continue the reading in Jeremiah chapter 45 verses 2 and 3.
And please note, Jehovah's personal interest in Beric.
Jeremiah 45, 2 and 3 says.
This is what Jehovah, the God of Israel, says concerning you, Beric.
You have said, whoa to me, for Jehovah has added grief to my pain.
I am weary from my groaning and I have found no resting place.
Why was Beric feeling like that?
Was he getting tired of his assignment or perhaps the circumstances in which he had
to perform it?
Let's keep reading verses 4 and 5.
You should say to him, this is what Jehovah says.
Look, what I have built up, I am tearing down.
And what I have planted, I am uprooting the entire land.
But you are seeking great things for yourself.
Stop seeking such things.
For I am about to bring a calamity on all flesh to Claire's Jehovah.
And wherever you may go, I will grant you your life as a spoil.
What reason did Jehovah give for Beric's feelings?
It was not the assignment itself or even his circumstances.
In verse 5, Jehovah said, you are seeking great things for yourself.
Think about that.
It was Beric's own view of what seemed great or most important.
For a time he was focused on seeking great things for himself.
But do you think those great things could have been?
Was it a desire for fame or prestige?
Was he sensing that his support for God's prophet was putting at risk his position and
career?
Or did the great things have to do with getting more money, property or some material possessions?
We don't know.
But Beric knew what they were, and Jehovah's Council was clear, stop seeking such things.
It seems Beric took Jehovah's Council to heart.
I imagine him reasoning something like this.
Jehovah knows my thoughts and feelings.
Have I really been seeking great things for myself?
It's true.
Jehovah's always right.
My desires got the better of me, and I was so distressed.
But Jehovah's kindly telling me, Beric, be realistic, a divine judgment is coming.
Everything that seems so stable will be uprooted.
Material things, property, money or a prominent career, it's all temporary.
Seeking those things is dangerous.
Jehovah wants me and others to survive the common calamity.
That's what I want.
I need to get back to seeking great things for Jehovah.
Well, that's just a possibility of how Beric might have been thinking.
But did he accept and follow the council?
Yes.
During the Babylonian siege of Jerusalem about 17 years later, Beric appears again in the
inspired record supporting Jeremiah.
And though many others died during the catastrophic destruction of Jerusalem, Beric and Jeremiah
survived.
Beric's humble response to Jehovah's Council saved his life and such a response to divine
council can do the same for us.
I'm sure as you think more about Beric, you'll see other ways we can benefit from his
example, but let's briefly discuss one particular challenge that some of us might be facing
right now and how Beric's experience can help.
The challenge?
Being balanced while providing materially for ourselves and our families.
In today's world, many people are seeking great things for themselves as they pursue
secular education and secular work.
Many believe that the key to success and the key to there and their family's happiness
involves money and getting more material things or a resting place in this system of things.
Such thinking could influence us.
If you're a family head, consider Chibisa.
Chibisa brother in Malawi, who along with his wife and seven children, were doing well
spiritually.
However, at one point, they faced financial problems.
At times, there was not enough money to buy food for each day.
How stressful.
Like many others, Chibisa decided to go to South Africa to find work.
That was a personal decision.
But was it wise?
Looking back, Chibisa said this.
This affected me spiritually because I did not know the language.
I was unable to preach and I did not benefit from the meetings.
Being so far from my family caused me to neglect my responsibility as a family head.
As a result, my family grew weak spiritually and we all missed each other very much.
I realized that I had made a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.
You parents must also make personal decisions about secular education for your children.
Naturally, you want them to get a good education.
But you have to think carefully about potential dangers.
For example, in some countries, parents send their young children away to boarding schools.
The March 15, 1997 issue of the watchtower discussed the scriptural principles involved
and related a number of experiences highlighting the dangers.
A brother named Clement said that before going away to boarding school, he loved the truth
and enjoyed participating in the ministry in family worship and at meetings.
However, he said,
Once I went into boarding school at the age of 14, I left the truth completely.
Throughout the five years I spent in boarding school, I never attended meetings.
As a result of bad company, I got involved with drugs, smoking, and heavy drinking.
Let's consider one more situation.
You younger Christians approaching adulthood must make decisions involving education and employment.
There may be many choices, but which ones will help you live up to your dedication to Jehovah?
One sister said this.
As a baptized witness, I had read and heard about the dangers of pursuing university education,
but I dismissed such warnings.
I thought that counsel did not apply to me.
Well, our sister made her personal choice in the matter, but was it a wise one?
She continues.
Studying for my courses took so much time and effort that I was too busy to linger in prayer
to Jehovah the way I used to, too exhausted to enjoy Bible discussions with others,
and too tired to prepare well for the meetings.
Thankfully, once I realized that being immersed in higher education was damaging my relationship
with Jehovah, I knew I had to stop and I did.
Of what do these real life examples remind us?
In Satan's system of things, we will face challenges that test our determination to put
Jehovah's will first in our lives.
Like Barrick, personal desires could distract us.
If that ever happens, we need to take quick action to correct our viewpoint as did Barrick.
Happily, through the Bible and spiritual instruction from the faithful slave,
Jehovah helps us make better choices in personal areas of life,
such as those involving secular education and secular work.
At Psalm 32.8, he promises,
I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.
We are wise to seek out such advice by doing research,
by talking to mature Christians, and then applying such counsel.
Chabisa did that after moving to South Africa, his conscience started bothering him,
and he remembered the example of Barrick.
Chabisa said this,
Barrick may have wanted to pursue material riches as I had.
When he was helped, he returned.
I decided then to put Jehovah in first place instead of searching for material things,
so I started to make changes to go home and help my family spiritually.
When I left South Africa and reached the border of Malawi, I felt great happiness in my heart,
and I am still happy, studying the Bible has helped me.
We still encounter financial problems,
but I remember that in Satan's world,
there is nowhere we can go and have no problems.
My family is progressing spiritually,
and this makes me very happy because my relationship with Jehovah is strong.
Like Barrick, Chabisa was humble and courageous,
and we know those same qualities characterize you, brothers and sisters.
So when Jehovah, our loving father, gives us timely advice as he did to his close friend, Barrick,
let's take it to heart. Let's do whatever it takes to make sure we and our families
continue seeking first the kingdom and God's righteousness.
And never forget, as we continue to seek great things for Jehovah,
He'll continue to do great things for us and our families.
Yes, it's His blessing that makes us truly rich, and He adds no pain with it.